OH BABY A TRIPLE
NUMBER 2
Hi, this video is on 6-3 stacking, 5-4 stacking and centerwell stacking in general
but before I start, according to youtube statistics, nobody is subscribed to my channel
so if you end up liking this video, consider being my first. It's free and you can always subscribe. Enjoy the video.
So to start off, the reason why this isn't called anything like 75 stacking is because
in the name 6-3 stack, the 6 refers to the 6 columns from the left side
and the 3 refers to the 3 columns from the right side
so if you had something like a 7-2 stack, you'd have 7 columns from the left side
and 2 columns from the right
if you had a 2-7 stack, you'd have 2 columns from the left side and then 7 columns from the right
and that's why we call it a 9-0 stack which is the one you should be familiar with
you have 9 columns from the left side and 0 columns from the right side
because that's where the well is
I think it's pretty commonly agreed that the best wells for stacking in versus tetris
are 6-3 or 5-4 because they allow for easy T-spin setups
now I won't be getting into T-spin setups yet, but here's how you can center well stack for sprint
so starting off with the right side of our stack
you just have to think back to the stacking patterns episode
where we looked at the 3x4 boxes
and honestly, it really just is a bunch of 3x4 boxes
so this here is a 3x4 box
this here is going to be another 3x4 box
and it just continues
so the right side is really simple
I'm also going to add on some 3x4 boxes that you might not know already
so this is the first one
and this is the second one
so J-J-O or L-L-O will also create a 3x4 box
now building the left side is a lot more difficult
and it really just is a bunch of lookahead
but I'll try my best to give you some pointers so you can get through this
first things first
the right side is always going to be a combination of J-L-Z-S or O
and so the only pieces that I didn't mention were the T and the I piece
and so those pieces are always going to be on the left side column
but if you do accidentally put a T on that other side
you need to make sure that you have a second T to put on that side
in order to keep on doing the 3x4 patterns
you won't be able to do 3x4 patterns if you only have one T on the other side
so stick with an even number of Ts
the second thing to keep in mind is that the hardest pieces to place
are definitely going to be those S and Z pieces
so make sure that you always have a place to put them
and really pay attention to especially those pieces in the queue
these are some patterns to get rid of the S and Z pieces
and most of these will just be refreshes
this first one is the most important one
if you have any part of your stack that is of a T shape
this essentially is a stair that's coming from the left side and the right side
so it can fit the S and the Z piece on the back of it
similarly if you have any part of your stack that has a T-shaped hole
you can think of it the same way
one of the stairs goes up to the right
one of the stairs goes up to the left
so you can lodge both of them onto it
the second pattern is when there are stairs that are two blocks apart
and you can go like this
and when they are together you can do this
next if you have flat ground but there's a hole inside
you can use the S and Z piece like this
and finally if you have one stair that has nothing next to it
you can lodge them onto each other like this
all these patterns will be extremely useful for dealing with these S and Z pieces
this is another method you can try to do 6-3 with
so what we're going to do is we're going to sort each column into different groups
the first four columns we're going to use the T, S and Z piece
the right three columns we're just going to make the 3x4 boxes
and the middle two columns we just use the linear pieces which are the I, O, J, L
and we just create 2xX boxes with them
so it looks something a bit like this
so
and yeah you get the point it just continues
to be honest I'm not sure why I haven't seen many people main this but it works
so if you want to use it, it works
and in my opinion this is the best opener for 6-3
and inside of that fifth column we're just going to put the second I piece
with 5-4 stacking it's a lot less systematic
as you can see in my stack any piece can literally go anywhere
but here are my tips to try and help you
firstly remember those 3x4 boxes?
well get ready for Harry Houdini
4x3 box
it's the exact same thing
so on the 4 side remember your 4-3 boxes
also the S, Z patterns that we used in 6-3 stacking are also applicable on the 4 column
secondly it's only okay for one side of your stack to be spiky
if both sides are spiky you're dead
unlucky
go next
thirdly getting rid of a spiky stack should be in the same tier of dependencies
in that you need to get rid of them as soon as possible
so here's an I dependency
and here we're fixing a spike
I don't want to see any shenanigans done until those two conditions are met
and here we're pretty much finished
so thanks for watching
thank you
bye